Dialogix is a framework that facilitates the rapid design, refinement, and deployment of structured human-computer dialogs (SHCDs), like surveys, structured interviews, guidelines, and tailored educational programs which can make action decisions based on data from the respondent or other sources.  The Dialogix framework provides a schema and syntax for SHCD definition, a web-based system for deployment, and a schema for SHCD data storage.  The framework is domain-independent and relies on associating each action taken in an SHCD with an explicit rationale.  The dialog schema specifies the elements of rationale-action pairs (nodes) that are assembled in a sequence.  The Dialogix system, using SHCD definitions, manages and stores a detailed record of individual dialogs.  We have tested Dialogix by modeling and implementing SHCDs from various domains - a structured diagnostic interview, a clinical guideline, and an adaptive educational assessment tool.  Moreover, two large epidemiological studies started using Dialogix in 2000 to rapidly develop and computerize their complicated interview instruments; and they have been using the Dialogix engine for the past 16 months conduct large-scale data collection.  Process data are being used along with the content data to improve the usability of the instrument and the interface as well as to confirm reliability and validity. 

Dialogix was originally developed by research scientists at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute.  We now wish to make these resources open-source.  This move will foster further use of the framework and tools; enhanced functionality of these components; and a distributed environment for computerizing, testing, and deploying clinical assessment instruments.

Dialogix is currently written in 100% Java, and integrates with the Apache Tomcat, ORO-Matcher, and Cocoon projects.  Future directions include adding support for additional deployment platforms (especially handhelds), and merging our model with the W3C's XForms initiatives.

We wish to upload the CVS respository for Dialogix to SourceForge and have it maintained there.  We also want to enhance our capabilities by using SourceForge's Trackers (bugs, support, features, patches), forums, documentation management systems, task managers, etc.  Access to the compile farm would be beneficial as a testbed, but is not essential.  If available, we would also like to use some of the features of the SoruceForge Enterprise Edition, including distributed project management and reporting capabilities, and automated deployment.


Dialogix is a framework that facilitates the rapid design, refinement, deployment, and quality assessment of structured human-computer dialogs, like surveys, structured interviews, guidelines, and tailored educational programs.