Bugs
	check processing of last node in the schedule -- currently
		it doesn't properly check dependencies and the action occurs
		no matter what.
-------------------------

Devise timeline phases
	inception
		business case
			success criteria
			risk assessment
			resource needs
			phase plan
		prototype for proof of concept
	elaboration
		analyse problem domain
		establish architectural foundation
		project plan
		eliminate highest risks

	construction
		develop complete product
		finalize requirements and acceptance criteria
		testing
	transition
		beta deployment to user
		correct problems and add delayed features
		deploy production system

Process:
	business modeling -- rationale and context of proposed system
	requirements -- use case based
	analysis and design -- multiple architectural views
	implementation -- software development, unit tests, module integration
	testing -- test cases, procedures, error-tracking mechanism
	deployment -- deliverable system configuration
	configuration management -- e.g., CVS
	project management -- strategies
	environment -- infrastructure for development

Deliverables:
	requirements -- what the system must do
	design plan -- system architecture and functionality
	implementation plan --  how it's to be built
	deployment plan -- getting it to the users


Issues
	Grouping Nodes
		[] for indicate that MUST go together - e.g. a single question and conditional
		Means that [] define a single question group
	Grouping Questions
		Ability to filter by name - e.g. select those those whose concepts contain XXX
		If able to get Collection of Questions, and access their properties, then could construct BPRS-like schedule.
		Tree-view - when expand nodes, could gray-out inactive nodes
	Applying Styles to Questions - e.g. how to indicate that they should be grouped by concept
		Styles via XSL?  Would require that can access variables via myJavaScript? - How can ECMAScript equivalent
			be implemented within my stuff?	I don't seem to have the code for JSP (only the abstract classes) - not
			clear what would need to be overridden to implement the features I want.
		If not XSL, then how best to do this?  Would need
			(1) ability to filter based off of concept name
			(2) ability to format output.
				For HTML, could do this as string using my syntax and ability to reference node attributes from


5/3/2000
Finish memo to Pat Cohen re role of Fellows
Chaining schedules
	URL to external ones?
	XML-like namespacing (e.g. load schedule name as ...)
	child process? (recursion)
		all new variables should be validated for ID uniqueness
	better I/O for saving URL
		write permissions
		abstract URL vs file
Query lookups for answer choices
	parse answer choices for dynamic generation (e.g. combo;`choices`)
	Arrays - e.g. choices=array(x,y,z)
		really a hash - and more complex than that if want to use anchors
GUI
	focus, shift, next
	auto-forward (not needed)
	decrease # buttons
	hotkey abort? (no, use logo)
Help button
Saving
	at every step
	add suspended vs. completed save locations
	allow multiple for each (e.g. if want local and distant copy; or HD and floppy copies)
Load/Call files
Reserved words (e.g. for filename, so save file is time by default, but can be UID.txt - need reserved word for filename)
